hi again it's Lucy here and we're
looking at the TOEFL listening test and
specifically today we're looking at
lecture skill 11 organization okay now
in this particular lesson first we're
going to look at the task description
next we're going to talk about the
method and finally it's time for you to
do some practice on your own so the
purpose of this lesson is to understand
exactly how to complete the listening
organization question type okay now
remember in this particular type of task
it's a little bit different so it's very
important that you pay careful attention
to the task description so let's take a
look now in this task you need to
identify how a lecturer arranges
information during the lecture so this
particular question is about structure
not content okay now next we're gonna
look at the method and there's actually
two types of this particular task and
we'll show you an example of each so as
I said there's two different types and
in the first type the first step as
always is to listen to the audio and
take notes okay remember that
note-taking is a very important skill
for the TOEFL test use whatever system
works for you if you like abbreviations
and acronyms go for it if you like to
write down just key words whatever helps
you but remember don't waste your time
writing full sentences okay if you don't
already - make sure you have a pen and
paper available because it's time to
listen to the lecture okay are you ready
here we go after his defeat in 1812
Simon Bolivar fled to New Granada he
later returned with a new army while the
war had entered a tremendously violent
phase after much of the local
aristocracy had abandoned the cause of
Independence blacks and mulattoes
carried on the struggle elites reacted
with open distrust and opposition to the
efforts of these common people bolivars
forces invaded Venezuela from New
Granada in 1813 waging a campaign with a
ferocity captured perfectly by their
motto of war to the death bolivars
forces defeated the Spanish army in a
series of battles taking Caracas on
August 6th 1813
turning the tide against independence
these highly mobile ferocious fighters
made up a formidable military force that
pushed Bolivar out of his home country
once more in 1814 heavily reinforced
Spanish forces in Venezuela lost a
series of battles to believe ours forces
but then decisively defeated Bolivar at
La Puerta on June 15 and took Caracas on
July 16th at a cost of 2,000 Spanish
casualties as well as most of the 3,000
in the rebel army Bolivar and other
leaders then returned to New Granada
Bolivar and other Republican leaders
returned to Venezuela in December 1816
leading a largely unsuccessful
insurrection against Spain from 1816 to
1818 in 1819 Bolivar successfully
invaded New Granada and returned to
Venezuela in April 1821 leading a large
army of 7,000 at Caribou bowl On June
24th his forces decisively defeated
Spanish and colonial forces winning
Venezuelan independence okay hopefully
you were able to find some good notes
from that let's take a look at our
sample notes now you can see from our
sample notes they're nice and short not
too much detail but enough to help us
answer the question and remember our
next step is to read the question and
answer options and remember you have to
listen to the audio before you can
actually look at the question which is
why your note-taking skills are so
incredibly important so let's take a
look at our question and here is our
question it says how does the professor
organize the lecture is that a
thematically be chronologically C from
least complex to most complex ideas or
is it d there's no clear organization of
ideas now our next step is to check our
notes
eliminate any incorrect answers so let's
look at our notes and the question again
and see if you can eliminate any
questions that are obviously wrong now
obviously once you've eliminated the
wrong answer choices it's time to choose
the correct answer choice okay now if
you don't already make sure you have an
answer choice ready because it's time to
choose the remaining answer are you
ready
here's the answer and it is be
chronologically and you can see this
answer very clearly from your notes
right we have 1812 1813 1814 and so on
now we've done the first type let's take
a look at the second type and our second
type again
the first step is to listen to the audio
and take notes so let's listen and try
to take some short and sweet notes
Albert Einstein in his theory of special
relativity determined that the laws of
physics are the same for all non
accelerating observers and he showed
that the speed of light within a vacuum
is the same no matter the speed at which
an observer travels as a result he found
that space and time were interwoven into
a single continuum known as space-time
events that occur at the same time for
one observer could occur at different
times for another as he worked on the
equations for his general theory of
relativity Einstein realized that
massive objects caused a distortion in
space-time imagine setting up a large
body in the center of a trampoline the
body would press down into the fabric
causing it to dimple a marble rolled
around the edge would spiral inward
toward the body pulled in much the same
way that the gravity of a planet pulls
at rocks in space
okay hopefully you were able to take
some good notes using that lecture let's
take a look at our sample notes so again
here you can see nice short phrases not
too much detail but enough to help us
answer the question no full sentences
nothing like that okay now that we've
listened and taken our notes as time to
look at the question and here is the
question
it says how does the professor
demonstrate the distortion in space-time
is it a he cites previous research B he
asks a rhetorical question C he asks the
students to prove it or is it D he uses
an example okay now remember the next
step once we've looked at our question
and answer choices is to compare our
notes to that question and those answer
choices and eliminate any that are
obviously wrong and once you've
eliminated those that are wrong it's
time for you to choose the right answer
so let's look at the question in answer
choices first try to eliminate any wrong
answers and then try to choose the
correct answer
okay do you feel confident about your
answer let's take a look and the answer
is d he uses an example which you can
see in our notes about the trampoline
and the marble okay fantastic so now
that you've seen both task types it's
time for you to do some practice okay
and again if you don't already make sure
you have a pen and paper ready because
it's time to listen and take notes okay
are you ready
here is your practice lecture Hannibal
was a Carthaginian general during the
Second Punic War between Carthage and
Rome he is considered one of the
greatest generals of antiquity and his
tactics are still studied and used in
the present day Hannibal strategy of
presenting himself as a liberator worked
and a number of cities chose to side
with him against Rome while his
victories on the field continued to
swell his ranks with new recruits
Polybius writes how Hannibal had a set
of wigs made each of which made him look
like a man of a different age he changed
these constantly each time changing his
apparel to match his appearance thus he
was hard to recognize not just by those
who saw him briefly but even those who
knew him well after the Battle of
Trebbia where he again defeated the
Romans he retreated for the winter to
the north where he developed his plans
for the spring campaign and developed
various stratagems to keep from being
assassinated by spies in his camp or
hired killers sent by the Romans okay so
now that you've listened to the practice
lecture it's time to look at the
question remember to look at your notes
compare your notes against the question
and remove and eliminate any answer
choices that are obviously wrong so here
is our question
okay hopefully you were able to
eliminate some clearly wrong answer
choices using your notes and hopefully
you're able to choose the right answer
okay so are you ready okay here's our
answer and it is see with examples of
disguises so thank you so much for
watching I hope that was helpful for you
remember that if you have any questions
about the TOEFL test don't be afraid to
check out our website at eetu language
comm thank you again for watching and
I'll see you next time bye